contribute.md, before:

---
---

Contributing
============

There are many ways that you can contribute to the Learning Locker projects including:

- [Code](#code)
- [Issues](#issue-guidelines)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Translations](#translations)
- [Use cases](#use-cases)
- [Promotion](#promotion)

## Code

### Pull requests

The best way to get started with pull requests is to create a ticket in our tracker then address the issue / enhancement in your pull request. If the pull request is in response to a bug, then no extra detail is required, however, if you are proposing new functionality or a rewrite of existing code, then please include a detailed description with your pull request.

We are certainly open to pull requests and want to encourage people to get involved. If possible please create a test, this ensures that the issue you are fixing doesn't reappear and helps to show the expected behaviour.

#### Pull request criteria

**Hot fix**
> If the pull request is a hot fix then issue the pull request to the **master** branch.

**Everything else**
> If the pull request is something more substantial then issue the pull request to the **develop** branch for testing before it is merged with master.

#### Feature request

If you have a feature request for Learning Locker, then create a ticket in our tracker and make sure you select the label 'proposal'.

> [Issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues)

## Issue Guidelines

When reporting an issue please state (a) the version of Learning Locker that you are using, (b) the steps to reproduce the issue if applicable, (c) the expected behaviour potentially referencing the [xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI.md), and (d) the actual behaviour potentially with a screenshot.

If you are reporting a server-side issue it may also be helpful to note the database and authentication you are using (i.e. Mongo with basic authentication). Similarly if you are reporting a client-side issue it may also be helpful to note the OS and browser you are using and the version.

### Examples
- [Server-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/315)
- [Client-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/317)

## Testing

We are still to implement robust unit testing for Learning Locker but this is very much on the roadmap. In terms of end user / ux testing, we welcome all feedback. As with other issues, to report any issues you find while using Learning Locker create a ticket and provide as much detail as possible.

## Documentation

If you would like to help us document Learning Locker, here are the steps.

*  Fork the [documentation repo](https://github.com/learninglocker/docs)
*  Edit your copy
*  Issue a pull request with any changes

## Translations

We are looking for people interested in translating Learning Locker. If you would like to help out, we are currently using a service called Transiflex. You can visit the [Learning Locker page](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/learning-locker/), create a project and translate.

## Use Cases


## Promotion

Commit message:

Adds note about VERSION file.

contribute.md, after:

---
---

Contributing
============

There are many ways that you can contribute to the Learning Locker projects including:

- [Code](#code)
- [Issues](#issue-guidelines)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Translations](#translations)
- [Use cases](#use-cases)
- [Promotion](#promotion)

## Code

### Pull requests

The best way to get started with pull requests is to create a ticket in our tracker then address the issue / enhancement in your pull request. If the pull request is in response to a bug, then no extra detail is required, however, if you are proposing new functionality or a rewrite of existing code, then please include a detailed description with your pull request.

We are certainly open to pull requests and want to encourage people to get involved. If possible please create a test, this ensures that the issue you are fixing doesn't reappear and helps to show the expected behaviour.

#### Pull request criteria

**Hot fix**
> If the pull request is a hot fix then issue the pull request to the **master** branch.

**Everything else**
> If the pull request is something more substantial then issue the pull request to the **develop** branch for testing before it is merged with master.

#### Feature request

If you have a feature request for Learning Locker, then create a ticket in our tracker and make sure you select the label 'proposal'.

> [Issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues)

## Issue Guidelines

When reporting an issue please state (a) the version of Learning Locker that you are using (this can be found in the `VERSION` file), (b) the steps to reproduce the issue if applicable, (c) the expected behaviour potentially referencing the [xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI.md), and (d) the actual behaviour potentially with a screenshot.

If you are reporting a server-side issue it may also be helpful to note the database and authentication you are using (i.e. Mongo with basic authentication). Similarly if you are reporting a client-side issue it may also be helpful to note the OS and browser you are using and the version.

### Examples
- [Server-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/315)
- [Client-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/317)

## Testing

We are still to implement robust unit testing for Learning Locker but this is very much on the roadmap. In terms of end user / ux testing, we welcome all feedback. As with other issues, to report any issues you find while using Learning Locker create a ticket and provide as much detail as possible.

## Documentation

If you would like to help us document Learning Locker, here are the steps.

*  Fork the [documentation repo](https://github.com/learninglocker/docs)
*  Edit your copy
*  Issue a pull request with any changes

## Translations

We are looking for people interested in translating Learning Locker. If you would like to help out, we are currently using a service called Transiflex. You can visit the [Learning Locker page](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/learning-locker/), create a project and translate.

## Use Cases


## Promotion
