installation.md, before:

---
---

# Installation
Learning Locker is built upon the excellent [Laravel](http://laravel.com). Laravel has great documentation, so, we are going to focus on the key areas for Learning Locker as well as a couple of gotcha's. You will see reference to the Laravel docs throughout as it doesn't make sense to duplicate the efforts of a vibrant and growing community.

To install Learning Locker you need to follow these steps:

1. [Download](#download)
    1. [Github with Git](#github-with-git) (**Recommended**)
    2. [Packagist with Composer](#packagist-with-composer)
2. [Install](#install)
3. [Setup Mongo](#setup-mongodb)
4. [Register your first user](#register-your-first-user)

OS Guides:

- Ubuntu. Check out [@jpablo128](https://twitter.com/jpablo128)'s awesome walkthrough of [getting LL on Ubuntu](http://www.jpablo128.com/how_to_install_learning_locker/).
- CentOS 7.0. Check out [@davidpesce](https://github.com/davidpesce)'s detailed walkthrough of [setting up and installing LL on CentOS 7.0](https://gist.github.com/davidpesce/7d6e1b81594ecbc72311).

Additional information:

- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Installation on AWS](#installation-on-aws)


## Download

### Github with Git
To download Learning Locker via Github with Git, you need to run the commands below.

    git clone git@github.com:LearningLocker/learninglocker.git learninglocker
    cd learninglocker

### Packagist with Composer
To download Learning Locker via Packagist via Composer, you need to run the commands below. However, please note that for a better upgrading experience we recommend that you [download Learning Locker with Github via Git](#github-with-git).

    composer create-project learninglocker/learninglocker learninglocker
    cd learninglocker

*If you get a message 'Do you want to remove the existing VCS (.git, .svn ...) history? [Y,n]', select 'Y'*

## Install
To install Learning Locker you need to run the command below.

    composer install

## Setup MongoDB
Make sure you have MongoDB set up with your db credentials added to `app/config/local/database.php` (or `app/config/database.php` depending on your `bootstrap/start.php` file) inside `connections` under `mongodb`. Then run the command below.

    php artisan migrate
    
If you're upgrading to 1.3.0 please runs the commands below.

    php artisan ll:migrate-reports
    php artisan ll:migrate-statements

## Register your first user
Go to `yoursite/register` and create the first user (which will be super admin). When registration is complete, you will be logged in. Next, select 'settings' to visit overall settings and click on 'edit' - here you can give your install a name and description as well as set a few options for the install.

You are now ready to use Learning Locker If you would like to use a previous version of Learning locker just append the tagged name to the path. e.g learninglocker/learninglocker=v1.0rc1

## Configuration
By default the `app/config/local` configuration will be used if you access Learning Locker via your localhost. You can change various settings such as debug mode, default language and timezone in `app/config/app.php`.

## Installation on AWS
There are very detailed instructions for getting [Learning Locker running on AWS](http://cloudboffins.com/advanced-projects/learning-locker-lrs-free-server-part-1/) (it's a five part series)

Commit message:

Adds Jim Baker's blog post.

installation.md, after:

---
---

# Installation
Learning Locker is built upon the excellent [Laravel](http://laravel.com). Laravel has great documentation, so, we are going to focus on the key areas for Learning Locker as well as a couple of gotcha's. You will see reference to the Laravel docs throughout as it doesn't make sense to duplicate the efforts of a vibrant and growing community.

To install Learning Locker you need to follow these steps:

1. [Download](#download)
    1. [Github with Git](#github-with-git) (**Recommended**)
    2. [Packagist with Composer](#packagist-with-composer)
2. [Install](#install)
3. [Setup Mongo](#setup-mongodb)
4. [Register your first user](#register-your-first-user)

OS Guides:

- Ubuntu. [@jpablo128](https://twitter.com/jpablo128)'s provided an awesome walkthrough of [getting LL on Ubuntu](http://www.jpablo128.com/how_to_install_learning_locker/).
- CentOS 7.0. [@davidpesce](https://github.com/davidpesce)'s provided a detailed walkthrough of [setting up and installing LL on CentOS 7.0](https://gist.github.com/davidpesce/7d6e1b81594ecbc72311).
- Ubuntu with Vagrant. [Jim Baker](http://www.jmblog.org)'s blog contains [instructions for using LL with Vagrant](http://www.jmblog.org/blog/2015/02/03/learning-locker-vagrant).

Additional information:

- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Installation on AWS](#installation-on-aws)


## Download

### Github with Git
To download Learning Locker via Github with Git, you need to run the commands below.

    git clone git@github.com:LearningLocker/learninglocker.git learninglocker
    cd learninglocker

### Packagist with Composer
To download Learning Locker via Packagist via Composer, you need to run the commands below. However, please note that for a better upgrading experience we recommend that you [download Learning Locker with Github via Git](#github-with-git).

    composer create-project learninglocker/learninglocker learninglocker
    cd learninglocker

*If you get a message 'Do you want to remove the existing VCS (.git, .svn ...) history? [Y,n]', select 'Y'*

## Install
To install Learning Locker you need to run the command below.

    composer install

## Setup MongoDB
Make sure you have MongoDB set up with your db credentials added to `app/config/local/database.php` (or `app/config/database.php` depending on your `bootstrap/start.php` file) inside `connections` under `mongodb`. Then run the command below.

    php artisan migrate
    
If you're upgrading to 1.3.0 please runs the commands below.

    php artisan ll:migrate-reports
    php artisan ll:migrate-statements

## Register your first user
Go to `yoursite/register` and create the first user (which will be super admin). When registration is complete, you will be logged in. Next, select 'settings' to visit overall settings and click on 'edit' - here you can give your install a name and description as well as set a few options for the install.

You are now ready to use Learning Locker If you would like to use a previous version of Learning locker just append the tagged name to the path. e.g learninglocker/learninglocker=v1.0rc1

## Configuration
By default the `app/config/local` configuration will be used if you access Learning Locker via your localhost. You can change various settings such as debug mode, default language and timezone in `app/config/app.php`.

## Installation on AWS
There are very detailed instructions for getting [Learning Locker running on AWS](http://cloudboffins.com/advanced-projects/learning-locker-lrs-free-server-part-1/) (it's a five part series)
