issues.md, before:

---
---

# Issues
If you're creating an issue, it should one of the following:

- [Vulnerability](#vulnerabilities)
- [Bug](#bugs)
- [Enhancement](#enhancements)
- [Question](#questions).

## Vulnerabilities
If you find a security issue could you please [email us](mailto:security@ht2.co.uk) with a detailed description. This will give the team a chance to quickly resolve the problem. Don't post security issues anywhere else!

## Bugs
When reporting a bug please state the following information:

1. Version (or branch and commit) of Learning Locker that you are using (see the `VERSION` file)
2. Steps to reproduce the bug
3. Expected behaviour potentially referencing the [xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI.md)
4. Actual behaviour potentially with a screenshot.
5. Database and authentication (i.e. Mongo with basic authentication)
6. OS, browser, and browser version (only for client side bugs)

**Examples**
- [Server-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/315)
- [Client-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/317)

## Enhancements
When reporting an enhancement please state the following information:

1. Motive (why this enhancement is needed)
2. Result (what the enhancement does)

## Questions
When asking a question please make it obvious that it is a question and not a bug or an enhancement.

Commit message:

Adds link to issue tracker.

issues.md, after:

---
---

# Issues
Issues may be posted to our [issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues). If you're creating an issue, it should one of the following:

- [Vulnerability](#vulnerabilities)
- [Bug](#bugs)
- [Enhancement](#enhancements)
- [Question](#questions).

## Vulnerabilities
If you find a security issue could you please [email us](mailto:security@ht2.co.uk) with a detailed description. This will give the team a chance to quickly resolve the problem. Don't post security issues anywhere else!

## Bugs
When reporting a bug please state the following information:

1. Version (or branch and commit) of Learning Locker that you are using (see the `VERSION` file)
2. Steps to reproduce the bug
3. Expected behaviour potentially referencing the [xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI.md)
4. Actual behaviour potentially with a screenshot.
5. Database and authentication (i.e. Mongo with basic authentication)
6. OS, browser, and browser version (only for client side bugs)

**Examples**
- [Server-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/315)
- [Client-side issue](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/317)

## Enhancements
When reporting an enhancement please state the following information:

1. Motive (why this enhancement is needed)
2. Result (what the enhancement does)

## Questions
When asking a question please make it obvious that it is a question and not a bug or an enhancement.
