readme.md, before:

[![Learning Locker Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LearningLocker/docs/master/src/images/logo-small.png)](https://learninglocker.net)   
> Documentation for Learning Locker.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/LearningLocker/docs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/LearningLocker/docs)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/learninglocker/learninglocker/license.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/LearningLocker/learninglocker?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

*Learning Locker is copyright [Learning Pool](http://learningpool.com)*

## Users
Please view our [documentation](http://docs.learninglocker.net) site.

## Developers
You may contribute to this project via [issues](/issues) and [pull request](/pulls), however, please see the [guidelines](/contributing.md) before doing so. More information about how you can get involved can be found on the [Learning Locker website](http://learninglocker.net/community/get-involved/).

### Getting Started
1. Open the file you wish to edit on Github.
2. Edit the file.
3. Enter a "commit message" (found below the edited file).
4. Click "Propose file changes" (found below the edited file).

Alternatively:

1. [Fork](/fork) the repository.
2. Change the markdown documentation files.
3. Commit and push your changes to Github.
4. Create a [pull request](/pulls) on Github (ensuring that you follow the [guidelines](/contributing.md)).

Note that the documentation site is generated using [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/). To learn more about the repository structure, please view the [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/).

Commit message:

docs(Readme): Add "Development" section with quick start description

readme.md, after:

[![Learning Locker Logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LearningLocker/docs/master/src/images/logo-small.png)](https://learninglocker.net)   
> Documentation for Learning Locker.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/LearningLocker/docs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/LearningLocker/docs)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/learninglocker/learninglocker/license.svg)](http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/LearningLocker/learninglocker?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

*Learning Locker is copyright [Learning Pool](http://learningpool.com)*

## Users
Please view our [documentation](http://docs.learninglocker.net) site.

## Developers
You may contribute to this project via [issues](/issues) and [pull request](/pulls), however, please see the [guidelines](/contributing.md) before doing so. More information about how you can get involved can be found on the [Learning Locker website](http://learninglocker.net/community/get-involved/).

### Getting Started
1. Open the file you wish to edit on Github.
2. Edit the file.
3. Enter a "commit message" (found below the edited file).
4. Click "Propose file changes" (found below the edited file).

Alternatively:

1. [Fork](/fork) the repository.
2. Change the markdown documentation files.
3. Commit and push your changes to Github.
4. Create a [pull request](/pulls) on Github (ensuring that you follow the [guidelines](/contributing.md)).

### Development
1. Install [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
2. Install [Bundler](https://bundler.io/)
3. Run `bundler install`
4. Run `jekyll server --watch`
5. To go `http://127.0.0.1:4000` in our browser

For each change in the src files jekyll will automatically recompile the dist files.

Note that the documentation site is generated using [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/). To learn more about the repository structure, please view the [Jekyll documentation](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/).
