src/contribute.md, before:

---
---

# Contributing

There are many ways that you can contribute to the Learning Locker projects including:

- [Code](#code)
- [Issues](../troubleshooting)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Translations](#translation)
- [Promotion](#promotion)

## Code
To contribute code find a bug/enhancement to resolve in the Github issue tracker. You may [suggest a new enhancement in the issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/new?title=%7B%7BBrief description of your enhancement%7D%7D&body=**Motive**%0A%7B%7Bwhy the enhancement is needed%7D%7D%0A%0A**Result**%0A%7B%7Bwhat the enhancement is%7D%7D%0A%0A**Additional information**%0A%7B%7BadditionalInfo%7D%7D). To start writing code, follow the instructions below.

1. [Install and setup](http://docs.learninglocker.net/installation/) Learning Locker.
2. Change the code.
3. Test your code by running `./vendor/bin/phpunit`. Add tests if necessary.
4. Repeat from Step 2 or continue to step 5.
5. Create a [pull request](/pulls) on Github (ensuring that you follow the [guidelines](/contributing.md)).

*Learning Locker is built upon the [Laravel](http://laravel.com/) PHP framework, please view the [Laravel documentation](laravel.com/docs/) to learn more.*

## Testing
We do now have some testing which can be found in the `app/tests` directory. We'd like more tests so please feel free to add some via a pull request. The tests are ran automatically on every push to the Github repository via Travis.

## Documentation
If you would like to help us document Learning Locker, please see the [documentation repo](https://github.com/learninglocker/docs).

## Translation
All languages are now provided in the app/lang directory. We currently support the languages below.

- English
- Spanish (partly)

You can add translations via the "app/lang" directory in our Github repository. We were previously using a different system for translations, you can see the [Learning Locker Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/learning-locker/) to import previous translations that may not have made it into the Github repository.

## Promotion
For details about promoting Learning Locker please [email us](mailto:hello@learninglocker.net).

Commit message:

Improves contributing page and removes some deprecations.

src/contribute.md, after:

---
---

# Contributing

There are many ways that you can contribute to the Learning Locker projects including:

- [Code](#code)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Translations](#translation)
- [Promotion](#promotion)

## Code
To contribute code find a bug/enhancement to resolve in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues). You may [suggest a new enhancement in the issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues/new?title=%7B%7BBrief description of your enhancement%7D%7D&body=**Motive**%0A%7B%7Bwhy the enhancement is needed%7D%7D%0A%0A**Result**%0A%7B%7Bwhat the enhancement is%7D%7D%0A%0A**Additional information**%0A%7B%7BadditionalInfo%7D%7D). To start writing code, follow the instructions below.

1. [Install and setup](http://docs.learninglocker.net/installation/) Learning Locker.
2. Change the code.
3. Test your code by running `./vendor/bin/phpunit`. Add tests if necessary.
4. Repeat from Step 2 or continue to step 5.
5. Create a [pull request](/pulls) on Github (ensuring that you follow the [guidelines](/contributing.md)).

*Learning Locker is built upon the [Laravel](http://laravel.com/) PHP framework, please view the [Laravel documentation](laravel.com/docs/) to learn more.*

## Issues
To contribute in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker/issues) you can do the following. Please see the [troubleshooting page](../troubleshooting) for more information about reporting issues.

1. Report bugs
2. Suggest enhancements
3. Answer questions
4. Help reproduce issues
5. Ensure people use the issue templates
6. Improving the quality of issues by discussing them

## Testing
We do now have some testing which can be found in the `app/tests` directory. We'd like more tests so please feel free to add some via a pull request. The tests are ran automatically on every push to the Github repository via Travis.

## Documentation
If you would like to help us document Learning Locker, please see the [documentation repo](https://github.com/learninglocker/docs).

## Translation
All languages are now provided in the app/lang directory. We currently support the languages below.

- English
- Spanish (partly)

You can add translations via the "app/lang" directory in our Github repository. We were previously using a different system for translations, you can see the [Learning Locker Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/learning-locker/) to import previous translations that may not have made it into the Github repository.

## Promotion
For details about promoting Learning Locker please [email us](mailto:hello@learninglocker.net).
