src/http-statements.md, before:

---
---

# Statements HTTP Interface

Statements hold all of the xAPI records that have been inserted into the database via the [xAPI Statements HTTP interface](../http-xapi-statements).

It is accessible through the following HTTP interfaces:

- [Connection HTTP Interface](../http-connection) via http://www.example.org/api/connection/statement.
- [REST HTTP Interface](../http-rest) via http://www.example.org/api/v2/statement.

Whilst statements _can_ be inserted via the Models HTTP interface, this is not recommended as it bypasses all validation, reference and void checking, leading to invalid xAPI records.

Statements can be deleted by the REST API (on a statement by statement basis, but again **this is not recommended.**

### Schema

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
_id | Mongo ID | The id of the role _(autogenerated)_
stored | Mongo Date | When this statement was created _(autogenerated)_
timestamp | Mongo Date | When this statement's activity occured _(autogenerated)_
organisation | Mongo ID | The organisation this statement belongs in _(autogenerated)_
lrs_id | Mongo ID | The store this statement belongs in _(autogenerated)_
client | Mongo ID | The client that inserted this statement _(autogenerated)_
person | [Person](#person) | Information about the person assoiated to the actor in this statement
voided | Boolean |  Has the statement been voided
hash | String | A unique hash of the statement used for conflict checks on insert _(autogenerated)_
statement | [Statement](#statement) | The statement object as constructed and validated by the xAPI service
refs | Array  [[Statement References](#statement-references)]

### Person

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
_id | Mongo ID | The id of the person _(autogenerated)_
name | String | The name of the person - this is auto populated for quick reference to avoid lookups _(autogenerated)_

### Statement

Please refer to the [Statement Properties](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Data.md#24-statement-properties) in the xAPI specification for a full list of possible entries 

### Statement References

This contains an array of any statements that are referenced as part of this statement structure.

### Example GET data
```json
{
    "_id" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "hasGeneratedId" : false,
    "organisation" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "lrs_id" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "client" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "person" : {
        _id: "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
        name: "Joe Bloggs"
    },
    "voided" : false,
    "timestamp" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
    "stored" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
    "hash" : "05db245f890c4e5f9513658435ddd5e16c579df1",
    "refs" : [ ],
    "statement" : {
        "actor" : {
                "objectType" : "Agent",
                "name" : "xAPI mbox",
                "mbox" : "mailto:xapi@adlnet.gov"
        },
        "verb" : {
                "id" : "http://adlnet.gov/expapi/verbs/attended",
                "display" : {
                        "en-GB" : "attended",
                        "en-US" : "attended"
                }
        },
        "object" : {
                "objectType" : "Activity",
                "id" : "http://www.example.com/meetings/occurances/34534"
        },
        "id" : "3c5f9182-81ba-4e4c-9aa4-93a6b57a61ee",
        "timestamp" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
        "stored" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
        "authority" : {
                "mbox" : "mailto:hello@learninglocker.net",
                "name" : "New Client",
                "objectType" : "Agent"
        },
        "version" : "1.0.0"
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Add Deletion API Docs (#73)
* deletion docs wip

* deletion docs wip

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Removes unnecessary content-type header.

* Update src/http-statement-deletion.md

Co-Authored-By: ht2 <james@ht2.co.uk>

* Update src/http-statement-deletion.md

Co-Authored-By: ht2 <james@ht2.co.uk>

* Update src/http-statement-deletion.md

Co-Authored-By: ht2 <james@ht2.co.uk>

* Update src/http-statement-deletion.md

Co-Authored-By: ht2 <james@ht2.co.uk>

* Deletion API docs

* Deletion API docs

* Corrects HTTP method.

* Update http-statement-deletion.md

src/http-statements.md, after:

---
---

# Statements HTTP Interface

Statements hold all of the xAPI records that have been inserted into the database via the [xAPI Statements HTTP interface](../http-xapi-statements).

It is accessible through the following HTTP interfaces:

- [Connection HTTP Interface](../http-connection) via http://www.example.org/api/connection/statement.
- [REST HTTP Interface](../http-rest) via http://www.example.org/api/v2/statement.

Whilst statements _can_ be inserted via the Models HTTP interface, this is not recommended as it bypasses all validation, reference and void checking, leading to invalid xAPI records.

Statements can be deleted by the REST API. See [Statement Deletion API](../http-statement-deletion) for more information.

### Schema

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
_id | Mongo ID | The id of the role _(autogenerated)_
stored | Mongo Date | When this statement was created _(autogenerated)_
timestamp | Mongo Date | When this statement's activity occured _(autogenerated)_
organisation | Mongo ID | The organisation this statement belongs in _(autogenerated)_
lrs_id | Mongo ID | The store this statement belongs in _(autogenerated)_
client | Mongo ID | The client that inserted this statement _(autogenerated)_
person | [Person](#person) | Information about the person assoiated to the actor in this statement
voided | Boolean |  Has the statement been voided
hash | String | A unique hash of the statement used for conflict checks on insert _(autogenerated)_
statement | [Statement](#statement) | The statement object as constructed and validated by the xAPI service
refs | Array  [[Statement References](#statement-references)]

### Person

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
_id | Mongo ID | The id of the person _(autogenerated)_
name | String | The name of the person - this is auto populated for quick reference to avoid lookups _(autogenerated)_

### Statement

Please refer to the [Statement Properties](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Data.md#24-statement-properties) in the xAPI specification for a full list of possible entries 

### Statement References

This contains an array of any statements that are referenced as part of this statement structure.

### Example GET data
```json
{
    "_id" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "hasGeneratedId" : false,
    "organisation" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "lrs_id" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "client" : "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
    "person" : {
        _id: "111aaa1111a111111aa11111",
        name: "Joe Bloggs"
    },
    "voided" : false,
    "timestamp" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
    "stored" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
    "hash" : "05db245f890c4e5f9513658435ddd5e16c579df1",
    "refs" : [ ],
    "statement" : {
        "actor" : {
                "objectType" : "Agent",
                "name" : "xAPI mbox",
                "mbox" : "mailto:xapi@adlnet.gov"
        },
        "verb" : {
                "id" : "http://adlnet.gov/expapi/verbs/attended",
                "display" : {
                        "en-GB" : "attended",
                        "en-US" : "attended"
                }
        },
        "object" : {
                "objectType" : "Activity",
                "id" : "http://www.example.com/meetings/occurances/34534"
        },
        "id" : "3c5f9182-81ba-4e4c-9aa4-93a6b57a61ee",
        "timestamp" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
        "stored" : "2017-09-08T09:41:58.136Z",
        "authority" : {
                "mbox" : "mailto:hello@learninglocker.net",
                "name" : "New Client",
                "objectType" : "Agent"
        },
        "version" : "1.0.0"
    }
}
```
