src/http-journey-progress.md, before:

---
---

# Journey Progress HTTP Interface

> `Please note:` Journeys are only available in our Enterprise hosted version of Learning Locker. For more information about the differences, please see [this page](https://learninglocker.net/faqs/open-source-vs-saas-lrs/).

An actor/person's progress through a journey.

It is accessible through the following HTTP interfaces:

- [Connection HTTP Interface](../http-connection) via http://www.example.org/api/connection/journeyProgress.
- [Models HTTP Interface](../http-models) via http://www.example.org/api/journeyProgress.

### Schema

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | --- | ---
_id | Mongo ID | The id of this journey progress _(autogenerated)_
organisation| [Organisation](../http-organisations#schema) Mongo ID | The id of the organisation 
owner | [User](../http-users#schema) Mongo ID | The id of the user who this journey progress belongs to _(autogenerated)_
createdAt |  Timestamp | When this journey progress was created _(autogenerated)_
updatedAt |  Timestamp | When this journey progress was last updated _(autogenerated)_
pendingProgress | [pendingProgress](#pending-progress) | An object of pendingProgress _(autogenerated)_.
completions | [completions](#completions) | An object of completed statements.

### Pending Progress

This is a reference to statements which need processing.

It is an object whose key is the waypointID:

Name | Type | Decsription
--- | --- | ---
statement | Array of [Journey Progress Statement](#journey-progress-statement) | The reference to the statement.

### Completions

An array of completed waypoints.

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
waypoints | object | An object of [completed waypoints](#completed-waypoint) whose key are the waypoint ids.
completedAt | Timestamp | When this waypoint was completed.
isCompleted | boolean | If this journey has been completed. 


### Completed Waypoint

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
waypoint | Mongo ID | The id of the waypoint
order | Integer | The order of the waypoint
statements | Array of [journey progress statements](#journey-progress-statements) | A reference to the statements

### Journey Progress Statements

Reference and timestamp of a statement.

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
statement | Mongo ID | The id of a statement.
timestamp | Timestamp | When this statement was added.

## Example GET data

```
{  
  "_id":"59c23b28f6463f3569446bdc",
  "journey":"59c23527bdf9ac67b2ab5ee6",
  "organisation":"59198183d8ea540933227033",
  "updatedAt":"2017-09-20T09:56:04.309Z",
  "createdAt":"2017-09-20T09:55:52.198Z",
  "pendingProgress":{  
    "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5ee9":{  
      "statements":[
      ]
    },
    "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5eea":{  
      "statements":[  

      ]
    }
  },
  "lockKey":"571bf02f-d41b-4b31-972d-f092845af816",
  "duration":12133,
  "startedAt":"2017-09-20T09:55:50.310Z",
  "completions":[  
    {  
      "waypoints":{  
        "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5ee9":{  
          "completedAt":"2017-09-20T09:56:02.443Z",
          "isCompleted":true,
          "statements":[  
            {  
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:56:02.443Z",
              "statement":"59c23b32d138e44d720041a9"
            }
          ],
          "order":1,
          "waypoint":"59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5ee9"
        },
        "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5eea":{  
          "completedAt":"2017-09-20T09:55:53.799Z",
          "isCompleted":true,
          "statements":[  
            {  
              "statement":"59c23b26d138e44a720041ad",
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:50.310Z"
            },
            {  
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:51.192Z",
              "statement":"59c23b27d138e44a720041ae"
            },
            {  
              "statement":"59c23b28d138e44a720041af",
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:52.313Z"
            },
            {  
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:52.880Z",
              "statement":"59c23b28d138e44a720041b0"
            },
            {  
              "statement":"59c23b29d138e44a720041b1",
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:53.799Z"
            }
          ],
          "order":0,
          "waypoint":"59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5eea"
        }
      },
      "completedAt":"2017-09-20T09:56:02.443Z",
      "isCompleted":true
    }
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

Fixed owner in journey progress

src/http-journey-progress.md, after:

---
---

# Journey Progress HTTP Interface

> `Please note:` Journeys are only available in our Enterprise hosted version of Learning Locker. For more information about the differences, please see [this page](https://learninglocker.net/faqs/open-source-vs-saas-lrs/).

An actor/person's progress through a journey.

It is accessible through the following HTTP interfaces:

- [Connection HTTP Interface](../http-connection) via http://www.example.org/api/connection/journeyProgress.
- [Models HTTP Interface](../http-models) via http://www.example.org/api/journeyProgress.

### Schema

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
_id | Mongo ID | The id of this journey progress _(autogenerated)_
organisation| [Organisation](../http-organisations#schema) Mongo ID | The id of the organisation 
owner | [owner](#owner) | The ident associated to this progress
createdAt |  Timestamp | When this journey progress was created _(autogenerated)_
updatedAt |  Timestamp | When this journey progress was last updated _(autogenerated)_
pendingProgress | [pendingProgress](#pending-progress) | An object of pendingProgress _(autogenerated)_.
completions | [completions](#completions) | An object of completed statements.

### Owner

This is a reference to the xAPI actor or Learning Locker Persona associated to this progress.

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
trackBy | string | Only `"actor"` currently supported, `"persona"` tracking coming soon
ident | mixed | Either a full xAPI actor object or a [Persona Mongo ID](../http-personas)

### Pending Progress

This is a reference to statements which need processing.

It is an object whose key is the waypointID:

Name | Type | Decsription
--- | --- | ---
statement | Array of [Journey Progress Statement](#journey-progress-statement) | The reference to the statement.

### Completions

An array of completed waypoints.

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
waypoints | object | An object of [completed waypoints](#completed-waypoint) whose key are the waypoint ids.
completedAt | Timestamp | When this waypoint was completed.
isCompleted | boolean | If this journey has been completed. 


### Completed Waypoint

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
waypoint | Mongo ID | The id of the waypoint
order | Integer | The order of the waypoint
statements | Array of [journey progress statements](#journey-progress-statements) | A reference to the statements

### Journey Progress Statements

Reference and timestamp of a statement.

Name | Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
statement | Mongo ID | The id of a statement.
timestamp | Timestamp | When this statement was added.

## Example GET data

```
{  
  "_id":"59c23b28f6463f3569446bdc",
  "journey":"59c23527bdf9ac67b2ab5ee6",
  "organisation":"59198183d8ea540933227033",
  "updatedAt":"2017-09-20T09:56:04.309Z",
  "createdAt":"2017-09-20T09:55:52.198Z",
  "pendingProgress":{  
    "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5ee9":{  
      "statements":[
      ]
    },
    "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5eea":{  
      "statements":[  

      ]
    }
  },
  "lockKey":"571bf02f-d41b-4b31-972d-f092845af816",
  "duration":12133,
  "startedAt":"2017-09-20T09:55:50.310Z",
  "completions":[  
    {  
      "waypoints":{  
        "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5ee9":{  
          "completedAt":"2017-09-20T09:56:02.443Z",
          "isCompleted":true,
          "statements":[  
            {  
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:56:02.443Z",
              "statement":"59c23b32d138e44d720041a9"
            }
          ],
          "order":1,
          "waypoint":"59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5ee9"
        },
        "59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5eea":{  
          "completedAt":"2017-09-20T09:55:53.799Z",
          "isCompleted":true,
          "statements":[  
            {  
              "statement":"59c23b26d138e44a720041ad",
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:50.310Z"
            },
            {  
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:51.192Z",
              "statement":"59c23b27d138e44a720041ae"
            },
            {  
              "statement":"59c23b28d138e44a720041af",
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:52.313Z"
            },
            {  
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:52.880Z",
              "statement":"59c23b28d138e44a720041b0"
            },
            {  
              "statement":"59c23b29d138e44a720041b1",
              "timestamp":"2017-09-20T09:55:53.799Z"
            }
          ],
          "order":0,
          "waypoint":"59c237bebdf9ac67b2ab5eea"
        }
      },
      "completedAt":"2017-09-20T09:56:02.443Z",
      "isCompleted":true
    }
  ]
}
```
