src/http-xapi-statements.md, before:

---
---

# xAPI Statements HTTP Interface
The table below describes the routes that the HTTP interface provides, all of the URLs are relative to http://www.example.org/data/xAPI where http://www.example.org is the URL of your Learning Locker instance. To access this interface, you must additionally supply your Basic Auth details with each request in the `Authorization` header. Your Basic Auth details can be found under **Settings** > **Clients**. Go to the [xAPI HTTP interface documentation](../http-xapi) to see the rest of the xAPI routes.

Route | Description
--- | ---
[PUT /statements](../http-xapi-statements#put-statements) | Stores a single statement.
[POST /statements](../http-xapi-statements#post-statements) | Stores a single statement or multiple statements.
[GET /statements](../http-xapi-statements#get-statements) | Retrieves statements.

## PUT /statements
This route allows you to create a single statement with a statement identifier in the URL parameters and the statement itself in the JSON body. A request to this API would look something like the request below.

```http
PUT http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements?statementId=dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
  "actor": { "mbox": "mailto:test@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
}
``` 

This route returns a 204 response with no content when the statement is successfully created, like the example response below.

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 NO CONTENT
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z
```

For more information, view the [PUT /statements route in the xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Communication.md#211-put-statements).

## POST /statements
This route allows you to create a multiple statements with or without statement identifiers. A request to this API would look something like the request below.

```http
POST http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8

[{
  "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
  "actor": { "mbox": "mailto:test1@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
}, {
  "actor": { "mbox": "mailto:test2@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
}]
```

This route returns a 200 response with an array of statement identifiers when the statements are successfully created. A response from this route would look something like the response below.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z

["dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027", "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de028"]
```

For more information, view the [POST /statements route in the xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Communication.md#212-post-statements).

## GET /statements
This route allows you to retrieve a single statement or multiple statements. If the `statementId` or `voidedStatementId` URL parameters are set, it will [retrieve a single statement](#single-statement) with the given identifier, otherwise it will retrieve [many statements](#many-statements). For more information, view the [GET /statements route in the xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Communication.md#213-get-statements).

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/168960744" width="80%" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="padding-left: 15%;"></iframe>

### Single Statement
In addition to the `statementId` and `voidedStatementId` URL parameters (one of which must be set to retrieve a single statement), there are two additional optional parameters in the form of `format` and `attachments`. The `format` parameter defaults to "exact" if it's not set, the other options are "ids" (only includes minimal information) and "canonical" (only includes one language per language map). The `attachments` parameter is a boolean that determines if the statement's attachments are returned with the statement.

```http
GET http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements?statementId=dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027&format=exact&attachments=false
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
```

When getting a single statement successfully, this route will return a 200 response as shown below with the statement as the body of the request. If the single statement cannot be found, then this route will return a 404 response.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z

{
  "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
  "actor": { "objectType": "Agent", "mbox": "mailto:test@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "objectType": "Activity", "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
  "version": "1.0.3",
  "authority": {
    "objectType": "Agent",
    "mbox": "mailto:authority@example.org"
  },
  "timestamp": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00",
  "stored": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00"
}
```

### Many Statements
When retrieving multiple statements there are a number of optional URL parameters listed below that can be used to filter statements. All of the URL parameters should be URL encoded (after JSON encoding if JSON encoding is required).

Parameter | Description
--- | ---
agent | JSON encoded object containing an IFI to match an agent or group.
verb | String matching the statement's verb identifier.
activity | String matching the statement's object identifier.
registration | String matching the statement's registration from the context.
related_activities | Applies the activity filter to any activity in the statement when `true`. Defaults to `false`.
related_agents | Applies the activity filter to any agent/group in the statement when `true`. Defaults to `false`.
since | String that returns statements stored after the given timestamp (exclusive).
until | String that returns statements stored before the given timestamp (inclusive).
limit | Number of statements to return. Defaults to `0` which returns the maximum the server will allow.
format | String ("exact"/"ids"/"canonical") determining how much of the statement is returned. Defaults to "exact" to return the full statement.
attachments | Boolean determining if the statements' attachments should be returned. Defaults to `false`.
ascending | Boolean determining if the statements should be returned in ascending stored order. Defaults to `false`.

Below is an example of a request containing each of the URL parameters.

```http
GET http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements?agent=%7B%22mbox%22%3A%20%22mailto%3Atest%40example.org%22%7D&verb=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Fverb&activity=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Factivity&registration=361cd8ef-0f6a-40d2-81f2-b988865f640c&related_activities=false&related_agents=false&since=2017-09-04T12:45:31+00:00&until=2017-09-06T12:45:31+00:00&limit=1&format=exact&attachments=false&ascending=false
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
```

This route will return a 200 response as shown below where the JSON body of the response contains a more link and an array of statements that match the URL parameters. The more link can be used to retrieve the next page of statements, if there aren't any more pages of statements the more link will be an empty string.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z

{
  "more": "/data/xAPI/statements?agent=%7B%22mbox%22%3A%20%22mailto%3Atest%40example.org%22%7D&verb=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Fverb&activity=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Factivity&registration=361cd8ef-0f6a-40d2-81f2-b988865f640c&related_activities=false&related_agents=false&since=2017-09-04T12:45:31+00:00&until=2017-09-06T12:45:31+00:00&limit=1&format=exact&attachments=false&ascending=false&cursor=59a8289f399c5b1a19efa60e",
  "statements": [{
    "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
    "actor": { "objectType": "Agent", "mbox": "mailto:test@example.org" },
    "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
    "object": { "objectType": "Activity", "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
    "context": { "registration": "361cd8ef-0f6a-40d2-81f2-b988865f640c" },
    "version": "1.0.3",
    "authority": {
      "objectType": "Agent",
      "mbox": "mailto:authority@example.org"
    },
    "timestamp": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00",
    "stored": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00"
  }]
}
```

Commit message:

docs: Adds information about checks for unauthorised errors.

src/http-xapi-statements.md, after:

---
---

# xAPI Statements HTTP Interface
The table below describes the routes that the HTTP interface provides, all of the URLs are relative to http://www.example.org/data/xAPI where http://www.example.org is the URL of your Learning Locker instance. To access this interface, you must additionally supply your Basic Auth details with each request in the `Authorization` header. Your Basic Auth details can be found under **Settings** > **Clients**.

If you receive an "unauthorised error" from this API, you can use the three checks below via the Client UI. To remove the need for these checks, Learning Locker will automatically create a new client when a new store is created, the new client is enabled by default, with the "All" scope, and the LRS set to the new store. To avoid unauthorised errors, try to use the new client and remember the checks below if you edit or create a client manually.

1. Check that the client is enabled.
2. Check that the "All" scope is selected under the "xAPI" heading.
3. Check that an LRS is selected.

Go to the [xAPI HTTP interface documentation](../http-xapi) to see the rest of the xAPI routes.

Route | Description
--- | ---
[PUT /statements](../http-xapi-statements#put-statements) | Stores a single statement.
[POST /statements](../http-xapi-statements#post-statements) | Stores a single statement or multiple statements.
[GET /statements](../http-xapi-statements#get-statements) | Retrieves statements.

## PUT /statements
This route allows you to create a single statement with a statement identifier in the URL parameters and the statement itself in the JSON body. A request to this API would look something like the request below.

```http
PUT http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements?statementId=dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
  "actor": { "mbox": "mailto:test@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
}
``` 

This route returns a 204 response with no content when the statement is successfully created, like the example response below.

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 NO CONTENT
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z
```

For more information, view the [PUT /statements route in the xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Communication.md#211-put-statements).

## POST /statements
This route allows you to create a multiple statements with or without statement identifiers. A request to this API would look something like the request below.

```http
POST http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8

[{
  "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
  "actor": { "mbox": "mailto:test1@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
}, {
  "actor": { "mbox": "mailto:test2@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
}]
```

This route returns a 200 response with an array of statement identifiers when the statements are successfully created. A response from this route would look something like the response below.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z

["dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027", "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de028"]
```

For more information, view the [POST /statements route in the xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Communication.md#212-post-statements).

## GET /statements
This route allows you to retrieve a single statement or multiple statements. If the `statementId` or `voidedStatementId` URL parameters are set, it will [retrieve a single statement](#single-statement) with the given identifier, otherwise it will retrieve [many statements](#many-statements). For more information, view the [GET /statements route in the xAPI specification](https://github.com/adlnet/xAPI-Spec/blob/master/xAPI-Communication.md#213-get-statements).

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/168960744" width="80%" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="padding-left: 15%;"></iframe>

### Single Statement
In addition to the `statementId` and `voidedStatementId` URL parameters (one of which must be set to retrieve a single statement), there are two additional optional parameters in the form of `format` and `attachments`. The `format` parameter defaults to "exact" if it's not set, the other options are "ids" (only includes minimal information) and "canonical" (only includes one language per language map). The `attachments` parameter is a boolean that determines if the statement's attachments are returned with the statement.

```http
GET http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements?statementId=dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027&format=exact&attachments=false
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
```

When getting a single statement successfully, this route will return a 200 response as shown below with the statement as the body of the request. If the single statement cannot be found, then this route will return a 404 response.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z

{
  "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
  "actor": { "objectType": "Agent", "mbox": "mailto:test@example.org" },
  "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
  "object": { "objectType": "Activity", "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
  "version": "1.0.3",
  "authority": {
    "objectType": "Agent",
    "mbox": "mailto:authority@example.org"
  },
  "timestamp": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00",
  "stored": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00"
}
```

### Many Statements
When retrieving multiple statements there are a number of optional URL parameters listed below that can be used to filter statements. All of the URL parameters should be URL encoded (after JSON encoding if JSON encoding is required).

Parameter | Description
--- | ---
agent | JSON encoded object containing an IFI to match an agent or group.
verb | String matching the statement's verb identifier.
activity | String matching the statement's object identifier.
registration | String matching the statement's registration from the context.
related_activities | Applies the activity filter to any activity in the statement when `true`. Defaults to `false`.
related_agents | Applies the activity filter to any agent/group in the statement when `true`. Defaults to `false`.
since | String that returns statements stored after the given timestamp (exclusive).
until | String that returns statements stored before the given timestamp (inclusive).
limit | Number of statements to return. Defaults to `0` which returns the maximum the server will allow.
format | String ("exact"/"ids"/"canonical") determining how much of the statement is returned. Defaults to "exact" to return the full statement.
attachments | Boolean determining if the statements' attachments should be returned. Defaults to `false`.
ascending | Boolean determining if the statements should be returned in ascending stored order. Defaults to `false`.

Below is an example of a request containing each of the URL parameters.

```http
GET http://www.example.org/data/xAPI/statements?agent=%7B%22mbox%22%3A%20%22mailto%3Atest%40example.org%22%7D&verb=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Fverb&activity=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Factivity&registration=361cd8ef-0f6a-40d2-81f2-b988865f640c&related_activities=false&related_agents=false&since=2017-09-04T12:45:31+00:00&until=2017-09-06T12:45:31+00:00&limit=1&format=exact&attachments=false&ascending=false
Authorization: YOUR_BASIC_AUTH
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
```

This route will return a 200 response as shown below where the JSON body of the response contains a more link and an array of statements that match the URL parameters. The more link can be used to retrieve the next page of statements, if there aren't any more pages of statements the more link will be an empty string.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
X-Experience-API-Version: 1.0.3
X-Experience-API-Consistent-Through: 2017-08-31T15:16:29.709Z

{
  "more": "/data/xAPI/statements?agent=%7B%22mbox%22%3A%20%22mailto%3Atest%40example.org%22%7D&verb=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Fverb&activity=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.example.org%2Factivity&registration=361cd8ef-0f6a-40d2-81f2-b988865f640c&related_activities=false&related_agents=false&since=2017-09-04T12:45:31+00:00&until=2017-09-06T12:45:31+00:00&limit=1&format=exact&attachments=false&ascending=false&cursor=59a8289f399c5b1a19efa60e",
  "statements": [{
    "id": "dfb7218c-0fc9-4dfc-9524-d497097de027",
    "actor": { "objectType": "Agent", "mbox": "mailto:test@example.org" },
    "verb": { "id": "http://www.example.org/verb" },
    "object": { "objectType": "Activity", "id": "http://www.example.org/activity" },
    "context": { "registration": "361cd8ef-0f6a-40d2-81f2-b988865f640c" },
    "version": "1.0.3",
    "authority": {
      "objectType": "Agent",
      "mbox": "mailto:authority@example.org"
    },
    "timestamp": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00",
    "stored": "2017-09-05T12:45:31+00:00"
  }]
}
```
