src/welcome.md, before:

---
redirect_from: 
  - "/troubleshooting/"
  - "/contributing/"
  - "/contributors/"
  - "/administration/"
---

# Welcome

Learning Locker is a conformant open source Learning Record Store (LRS) started by [HT2 Labs](https://www.ht2labs.com); a type of data repository designed to store learning activity statements generated by xAPI (Tin Can) compliant learning activities. This website provides technical documentation for Learning Locker, for anything else please see the [main website](https://learninglocker.net/).

> Learning Locker only supports xAPI v1.0 and above. It is not suitable for platforms still using an earlier version of xAPI. At this time there are no plans to provide backwards compatibility for older versions of the spec.

In addition to this website, there are several ways to find out more about Learning Locker such as:

- [Main Website](http://learninglocker.net/)
- [Github Repository](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker)
- [Gitter Chat Room](https://gitter.im/LearningLocker/learninglocker)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/learning_locker)
- [Email via hello@ht2labs.com](mailto:hello@ht2labs.com)

Commit message:

chore: Replaces HT2 Labs with Learning Pool.

src/welcome.md, after:

---
redirect_from: 
  - "/troubleshooting/"
  - "/contributing/"
  - "/contributors/"
  - "/administration/"
---

# Welcome

Learning Locker is a conformant open source Learning Record Store (LRS) started in 2013 by [HT2 Labs](https://www.ht2labs.com) (now [Learning Pool](https://learningpool.com)); a type of data repository designed to store learning activity statements generated by xAPI (Tin Can) compliant learning activities. This website provides technical documentation for Learning Locker, for anything else please see the [main website](https://learninglocker.net/).

> Learning Locker only supports xAPI v1.0 and above. It is not suitable for platforms still using an earlier version of xAPI. At this time there are no plans to provide backwards compatibility for older versions of the spec.

In addition to this website, there are several ways to find out more about Learning Locker such as:

- [Main Website](http://learninglocker.net/)
- [Github Repository](https://github.com/LearningLocker/learninglocker)
- [Gitter Chat Room](https://gitter.im/LearningLocker/learninglocker)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/learning_locker)
- [Email via hello@learninglocker.net](mailto:hello@learninglocker.net)
